How to bike to a workshop

Bike Zone
323 Barnstable Rd
Hyannis, MA 02601
(508) 490-4698


At border, saw radioactive box hanging from a crane and cordoned off
with 'high radioactivity area - do not pass'.

Got back to Boston at 2am.  Deposited stuff at lab at 3:30am and sent
off mail kindly requesting that someone pick up stuff.  Went to bed at
4am, without working bike pump or spare inner tube.

Left Edgerton at 8:20am after 20 minutes of aimless wandering,
showering, etc.  Biked to South Station, arriving at 8:40, which would
seem to be plenty of time for the 8:50 train to Plymouth.
Unfortunately, being the first workday of May, there was a line for
train tickets (and passes).  This line was allegedly 5 minutes long,
but looked much longer.  I go and ask the information desk what gate
the train to Plymouth departed from, and if I could buy tickets on the
train.  The guy says, "look at the board" and "no".  Not very useful,
especially since it is indeed possible to buy train tickets on the
train (if one has cash).

I rush to the appropriate gate and ask the person at the train if I
can buy a ticket on the train; he gives the correct answer and I
embark.  When the ticket collector arrived, I said that I needed to
buy a ticket, so she comes back with the tickets.  Meanwhile, I
discover to my dismay that I failed to transfer cash to my shorts,
prompting the (nice) conductor to fetch an irregular fare form.
Perhaps, she explained, they would send me a bill.  Or perhaps they
would not.  Later, a mean conductor quizzed me (and another guy) about
why we were irregular fares.  "I just forgot.  I expected it to be 
in my pocket, but it wasn't."  She said that she wouldn't have let us
on the train, and that we weren't showing any respect for the other
ticket collector person. (?!)

In any case, I arrived at Plymouth at 9:40 and shopped at Wal-Mart for
40 minutes, picking up a fanny pack (60" waist, $4!), a bike pump and an
inner tube.  Wal-Mart on a Monday morning is completely filled with
mothers and young children.  Left Plymouth in grey weather, with
occasional raindrops.

Massachussetts is surprisingly hilly.  There aren't actually any
difficult slopes, but there are a lot of gently rolling ups and downs.
After an hour and a half, I reached Cedarville, feeling really tired
and out of shape.  Eating lunch (aka breakfast) turned out to solve
that problem.  I first tried to eat lunch at a breakfast/bakery, but,
as advertised, they had nothing but oven things and breakfast foods.
I did get a placemat/map, though, which was pretty useful; it sure
beat blundering around.  I got a "home-baked lasagna" and a pink
lemonade a few doors down in the strip mall.

Next, I continued on MA-3 until it became US-6, near the Cape Cod
Canal.  Tragically, I got confused about east and west, and took 6W
for a while, arriving at Buzzards Bay.  There, I was informed (at a
Dunkin Donuts, complete with police officer) that the 6A was actually
6mi east of where I was, so I figured out that I had taken the wrong
turn.  Yet more tragically, trying to get back on track, I was going
up a slope in the now-more-than-spitting rain, my bicycle failed
spectacularly and destructively; this was brought to my attention by
the fact that moving the pedals no longer caused forward motion.
Fine, I thought, this has happened many times before; it must just be
the chain falling off the front gear wheel (name?).  Wrong!  The chain
had, indeed, fallen off, but that was caused by the derailleur being
completely out of position.  The derailleur was out of position
because the axle was off the forks.  Usually it's a bit tricky to put
the axle on the forks for the rear wheel, so I struggled for a bit to
put the axle back on.  This was not to be.  I then discovered that the
gear-side fork was completely broken: both tines were quite bent out
of shape, and the reinforcing triangle for the lower tine had actually
broken.  Surely I would be able to make a temporary repair and reach a
bike shop or something.  Unfortunately, I had no wrench.  Highway
detritus did not include anything hard, only bits of foam and plastic
(there's a lot of it).  But highways come with crash barriers on the
side, so I spent some time attempting to use gravity to force the fork
back into position by lifting the bike above the barrier and pushing
down.  I think I made some significant progress after 30 minutes or
something, but the last half centimetre gap just wouldn't close, so I
bailed and set off on foot, remembering that there should be a rest
area not too far away (I hoped).

Fortunately, there was a guy in a pickup truck talking on his cell
phone.  Luke, a student at the Massachussetts Maritime Academy, was
heading to exit 6B on US 6, so he offered me a ride to there; he'd
been stuck in a similar position himself in the past, so he
sympathized with my plight.  He would have driven me to Brewster, he
said, but had to be somewhere relatively soon.  I could, however, take
the bus to the new Hyannis Transportation Centre.  I was, once again,
really lucky; I got there at 1:48PM, and the bus left at 1:50PM.  I
got my $2 ticket and ran off to take the bus.  I was able to put the
two pieces of my bike on the bus and get to Hyannis.  Obviously, from
Hyannis, there is no bus to Brewster; one of the helpful people
suggested that if I was willing to walk 3 miles, then I could probably
get off the Orleans bus at the 124 junction.  More helpfully, there
was a bike shop near the roundabout, said one of the bus ticket
sellers.  I also saw a car rental place, which would have been a
backup option.  I first walked up Barnstable Road and went to the
Power Sports store, which didn't quite have what I wanted.  It did
have motorcycles.  The guy with no habla ingles didn't help me, but
someone else directed me to the Bike Zone, across from the KFC.

"Yep", they told me, "your bike is finished."  That's what I had
thought, but I did want a second opinion.  Dead, totalled,
inoperative... you just can't fix the frame, I guess, and if you did,
it wouldn't be very strong anyway.  Fortunately (I guess), my bike was
quite crappy, so it wasn't a huge loss.  I did leave the old bike
there so that I could perhaps pick it up on Wednesday or something.
They then proceeded to sell me a new used bike, in one of their
storage containers of bikes.  The guy said $60 at first, but only
charged me $50.  My Visa can definitely handle $50.  I like supporting
bike shops anyway, so $60 wouldn't have bothered me either.  (Later
on, people told me that there are many people who like to sell used
bikes for $100 or even $200, if you go to Cambridge Bicycle.  Wow!)  I
also got directions from Hyannis to Brewster: it was still raining,
and all roads, said the guy, sort of sucked, but he tried to give me
the one that would involve the least road changes: I was to take the
28 S to the 134 N, then turn onto Satucket Rd, which would bring me
directly to Brewster.  I also called the Ocean Edge Resort (whose
number I had gotten at the bus terminal) and told them to pass on the
message that I didn't get hit by a truck, as it was now 3:00 and I
clearly wasn't there yet.  The guy told me to expect a 1.5-2 hour
ride.

After all that excitement, the rain stopped (of course, I was still
wet; merino wool is quite good, and kept me warm, even if my cotton
shorts were rather cool) and nothing else happened for the rest of the
ride.  The new bike illustrated quite clearly that my old bike was
really, really crappy and probably 10 years overdue for replacement: I
was moving much faster on the new bike, with less effort.  The only
complaint I had about the bike was the height of the seat.  I didn't
quite need the permanent wedgie.  At the tail end of the trip, finding
out that Satucket Rd actually was a designated bike route was quite
nice; it even had a sidewalk at times.

Arriving at the Ocean Edge resort, I find Martin ("You're the luckiest
man alive!"), check in, go to the conference room looking like a total
dripping barbarian, take a hot shower (yay!), and catch the last 15
minutes of the session.

"Gosh," thinks I, "you have a talk tomorrow".  So until 2am I work on
my talk.  It's surprisingly adequate for a last-minute talk, I find,
when I deliver it the next morning.  I must admit that it's easier to
prepare a 10-minute talk than a 30-minute talk, if you don't try to
say anything technical.

On Wednesday, it's time to return to Boston.  This time, my goal is to
bike to Provincetown and to take the ferry back to Boston.  Sounds
good, huh.  I left Brewster around 1pm and arrive in Provincetown at
3:30pm without incident (30mi).  The incident, however, is the lack of ferry
from Provincetown to Boston until May 21.  Oops.  The two daily buses
leave at 6am and 1pm.  The observant reader will notice that 3pm is
later than 1pm.  Oops.  Does Provincetown have a car rental place?
No.  No, it doesn't.  Oops.  Does Cape Air have any flights?  Yes, at
4:30pm, but it's full.  Oops.  I go to the seniors' bus waiting around
and talk to a guy, who says that they're from New Jersey.  That
doesn't sound too useful.  They actually may have been staying in
Hyannis, but whatever.  Fortunately (a word that seems to be coming up
often here!) when I call back Cape Air to inquire about their
schedules (since the copies in the Chamber of Commerce are wrong) they
now have 3 seats on the 8-seater to Boston at 4:30, provided that I
can get to the airport in 20 minutes; they'll sell me a ticket for
$97.10.  I hop on my bike and pedal really fast to the airport; I
think it took me about 10 minutes; in any case, I clearly had time to
spare, although locking my bike up caused me to get behind two other
people in line (there were 5 people on the plane; I talked to Andy,
who was just there because a friend of his was dying.  He's too wimpy
to live on the Cape in winter, so he goes to Florida).  I got a
handwritten ticket; nice, huh?  Yep, I had to go through security at
Provincetown.  The metal detector was really sensitive, too, catching
my prox card (nice!) and some mountings from my (defunct) bike.  I
regret to report that the 20-minute flight was mostly boring, being
over water.  We flew at 1500 and 2500 ft; the crosswinds seemed to
make the plane wobble quite a bit at times.  I arrive at the airport T
station at 5:06 and get back to Stata by 5:30.

